So, welcome to a quick tour of the Unreal Editor!
In this video we're going to create ourselves a basic C++
project, and then, we're going to add a couple of objects to the scene.
Make sure we understand how default scenes work, so that
next time you load Unreal you get the same stuff
on the screen as you had before, scenes, levels, and
maps and all, basically interchangeable terms. And then, we're going to
have a play with the interface and customize it. You see my interface is looking a little
different. So, let's dive in and get that done now!
So, here we are back at the Epic Games
Launcher! So hopefully by now your Unreal Engine has finished
downloading. If it hasn't, it'll be telling you here and slowly filling up
this logo with black, from the bottom to the top. Now, if you can't see any of
this, then firstly check here on the right tab. You may be on one of these other tabs along
here. So, let's make sure we're on the UE4 tab and that we're in the Library
section of the UE4 tab, not the community section. Then, you
should see engine versions, and up here we have
4.10.1, or yours may be later than that and that's fine. As long as it's at
lest 4.10 we are good to go! So, let's launch Unreal
for the first time! You may get
a Windows Firewall warning here, when this opens. Now, by the way
I should say, if you're on a Mac I'm going to be covering the rest of the course on Windows, so
your going to have to fend for yourself in terms of the differences but their not huge.
The differences are not particularly massive. So that's it! You can actually
close the Epic Games Launcher if you want. And we're at a screen like this! I just maximize it!
Yours will be a lot smaller than this. As I said, I'm on a very low resolution.
What we want to do firstly is select C++, not Blueprint.
These are just defaults, by the way. I mean any project can pretty much be turned into any
other, but we're just going to start with C++ basic code.
But I am going to turn the Starter Content here off, so No
Starter Content. So, we want C++ at the top right, or select
it on this tab, Basic Code, these settings as default, but
No Starter Content just for simplicity. Pick yourself a sensible project
folder. I suggest you put all of the sections under one folder and then
organize them nicely. I'm just going to call mine, Section_01.
You can have spaces, by the way, so _01. And I'm going to create the
project. So, the first time you do this, it'll take a little while. It depends on the
speed of your machine. Because your Compiler is already installed
and running, i.e. Visual Studio or Xcode, then
this code generation should go swimmingly. If you get any errors down here, then you need to
go back and watch the videos about installing your integrated development
environment. Because we've already done that, I'm hoping this bit will go without a hitch
for you, and that when it'll finish compiling your C++ source
code, it's basically building you your own version of the Unreal Editor,
which you could customize if you wanted to. But we're not going to be
doing that, certainly, at this stage. So, we let that happen and then
we're going to see what Unreal looks like on the inside and
learn a little bit about saving and scenes
and how that all works. So scenes, you may hear the term level.
They're all the same type of idea. So, if it doesn't look like this for you, you can go
to the Window Menu, Reset Layout, and then OK.
So, it's Window, Layout, Reset Layout,
and then, OK, and when you do that it will
restart the editor and you'll be back to where we are. But I'm at the default, so I'll leave it as
it is. Cool! So, let's do something very simple! Let's find the Modes
Window, which is Modes here. If you lose any of these things, you can always come
here to Window, and then have a look through and see if you can find
Modes, which is there, and turn it on. See that Modes is on the left-hand
side. Let's go and find ourselves a basic, say cube, and just drag it and
drop it in the scene. You can move it with these arrows, up, down, left, right, etc.
And let's just save our project.
Now, when you click Save it's saying, save level as,
so the project name is Section_01. You see at the top here, it says Section_01,
but the level or the scene used
interchangeably is called Untitled, at the moment, and star means something has changed
on it. So, if we save, we're saving as it says the current level to disk. Let's
do that! Let's just call this Level_01. Now, I need
to maximize this, because I'm pushing the limits of
resolution. I want it to be as low as possible, so you can see everything. Level01
OK. So I've saved that level. Let's go ahead and quit
the project altogether now, go back to the Epic Games Launcher
Library, and then, where it says My Projects, you'll see you have a
version 4.10 called section 1. Let's re-open it!
And let's see what happens when we re-open
this. Ahh! Where's my cube gone?! It's a
disaster, I can't see it! Now, it turns out that if you double
click Level01 that, of course, it will load Level01, but what's happening is it's not
loading Level01 by default. OK, so what we want to
do is change that, so that you know how to
control the level that it loads by default, and then, we'll make sure that
works in a challenge for you, in a moment. So, let me show you how to change it!
What we need to do is go up to the Edit Menu
and then Project Settings. So, Edit, Project
Settings, and in here we're going to have Maps & Modes.
Now, levels, scenes, maps, you need to kind of consider those things all the
same. So, there we go! Now, Default Maps, Game
Default Map, but Editor Startup Map,
That's the challenge, is that it is the template default. When you start
the Editor it opens up a new blank map. That's fine! But if we want
to go back to the work we were working on, look you put the Down Arrow and then
Level01. So, there's a project level called Level01. Select that
and close and then close your project.
Let's try again! Simple stuff right, but this is the sort of thing
that will catch you out in Unreal, if you don't get it right from the beginning.
So, we come back here! Ahh, we have a cube! OK, I've got
a challenge for you! Here it is! I want you to add a second object to the
scene, save the scene, close the Unreal Editor, re-open it,
and ensure the object is still there, and then, congratulate yourself that you have some
semblance of control over the Unreal Engine. So go ahead, pause the video,
and do that simple challenge, getting a second object from the Modes Panel,
now.
Welcome back! So, let's do this thing! I'm going to go to Modes, and I'm
going to find, let's say a sphere. Let's stick a sphere on there, lift it up a bit,
because it offends me sticking halfway through the floor. I'm going to save my scene
level, App,
whatever you want to call it. Double click back into my project, from the Epic Games
Launcher and they're both there! So, Level01
is now loading as the default. Simple stuff but we now
know how to make sure our changes persist. Now, I want to talk to you quickly about
the layout of the engine here. You can change a lot of things. If you're
from Unity, for example, or you're on a very low screen
resolution, you might want to move things around. So, you have little grippers
here that you can move, and if you're careful then you can move
where these things are but you need to understand how it works. So,
have an experiment, because remember you can always go Reset Layout.
So, I want you to start grabbing tabs, like the World Outliner and
Details, and let's just move things around. I'm going to move it around
to something I'm more familiar with, which is a Unity style. I'm going to lose Modes.
I'm gong to put my World Outliner on the left hand side
there. I'm going to leave the Content Browser
where it is. Leave the Details where it is, that's equivalent to an
Inspector, so if you click on something you see all it's details on the right.
The World Outliner basically reflects all the things that are in this level
here, so it's a one for one correspondence. You click something there you see it here.
This is just like Unity, if you have any familiarity with that. If you don't and you don't
even know what Unity is, don't worry. Unity is a different game engine that just...
I'm reassuring you that this is fairly industry standard. Lots of these things work
in a similar way, which is good. Alright, you can move your panes
around, with the divisions in between them. And really, this is just a question of you
experimenting. So go ahead, experiment with all of your panes and panels.
If you have a very low resolution, like I do, then you may want to
change things around a little bit. So, you can double click on this little
yellow bit, at the top left, and that will give you a
different type of handle, so that you can move things around OK.
If you get into a complete mess like this, Window, Reset Layout,
OK. And then, do we want to save
the level? Well, sure that doesn't matter. If you're
changing your layout, then it's going to say do you want to save the level before I go and reload the
editor with a new layout. That's fine! Alright, so we're back to there! I'm
just going to adjust mine a little bit to be Outliner on the left.
I'm going to lose Modes, I'm going to detach this toolbar at the top,
then drag it carefully. See it depends where you let to there.
Then, the toolbar goes across the top, because i'm on such a low resolution. And
this is a layout that I'm pretty comfortable with. I'm going to be able to see all the things in the toolbar
I need. I've got plenty of room down on my details, on the right hand
side and I'm good to go! Now, bear in mind you
can also right click any tab and say Hide Tab, so we don't
really need it saying World Outliner, etc. So, if we
don't need that we can hide tab, and you can double click to show tab.
So, that's up to you how you want to lay our screen out, alright. So,
viewports. I, for now, am going to leave all these tabs on for me,
apart from the toolbar, so that when I refer to things,
I can guid you with my voice. I can say go to the World Outliner or go to the
Content Browser or to the Details Tab, but just bear in mind
you can right click on a tab and hide a tab like that, and then you can click at the top
left, the yellow to resume. I think you've got the idea! You can now customize
the Editor to your needs. When you've finished doing that, then just go to Window
then Save Layout. And then, you only get one layout, but
but you've saved your layout now. OK, so you've got a choice between you saved layout
and to reset the layout back to the default. By the way, these windows can
be detached completely and put in other places like this, a floating window.
So there it is, floating! And if you want to get it back, well then just experiment
or reset your layout. It's probably good to get in a bit of a mess,
then to learn how to sort yourself out because that is all
learning to command the interface. That's it, you have an introduction to Unreal! When you're happy
with your layout, just quit altogether, and we'll see you in the next section!